>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
APRIL 20th
NEW VIOLENCE ERUPTS IN EASTERN
UKRAINE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, TH
HIGH COST OF NEGATIVE COMMENTS
ONLINE
IT'S MORE THAN A MATTER OF
RUDENESS
>>THE BIGGER THE SITE HAS GOTTEN
MORE OFF-HANDS OR INAPPROPRIAT
COMMENTS HAVE COME THROUGH
>> THE FREE SAMPLES YOU'RE
GETTING FROM YOUR DOCTOR MAY
ACTUALLY COST YOU IN THE LON
RUN.
NEXT ON PBS "NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS A
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK, HARI
>>> RENEWED VIOLENCE IN EASTER
UKRAINE DAYS AFTER DIPLOMATS
REACHED INTERNATIONAL AGREEMEN
IN GENEVA TO DEFUSE THE CRISIS
FIVE PEOPLE WERE KILLE
INCLUDING THREE PRO-RUSSIA
SEPARATISTS DURING A SHOOT-OUT
AT A CHECKPOINT THE SEPARATIST
HAD SET UP
RUSSIA ACCUSED UKRAINE O
FAILING TO PROTECT RUSSIAN
SPEAKERS IN THE AREA
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT PUTI
ACKNOWLEDGED THE POSSIBILITY O
RUSSIAN MILITARY INTERVENTION IN
THE REGION
DURING A TELEVISION INTERVIEW,
WHEN ASKED WHETHER MOSCOW WOUL
PRESS ARMED PRO-RUSSIA
SEPARATISTS IN EASTERN UKRAINE
TO PULL BACK, THE RUSSIA
AMBASSADOR TO THE UNITED STATE
CALLED FOR THE DISARMING O
UKRAINIAN MILITIAS IN TH
WESTERN PART OF THAT COUNTRY
>> WE HAVE SIGNED THE GENEVA
AGREEMENT.
THAT'S A MESSAGE IN ITSELF
BUT WHAT IS IMPORTANT, THAT AL
PROVIDED IN THE GENEVA STATEMENT
IS EQUALLY APPLIED IN UKRAINE.
>> THOUGH THE AMBASSADOR SAI
HIS COUNTRY HAS NO INTENTION O
RECLAIMING PARTS OF THE UKRAIN
THAT WERE ONCE PART OF THE
SOVIET UNION
THE UKRAINIAN PRIME MINISTER
EXPRESSED HIS DOUBT.
>> PRESIDENT PUTIN HAS A DREAM
TO RESTORE THE SOVIET UNION.
AND EVERY DAY, HE GOES FURTHER
AND FURTHER.
AND GOD KNOWS WHERE IS THE FINAL
DESTINATION.
>> THERE REPORTEDLY HAS BEEN
SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS IN TALK
DESIGNED TO CURTAIL IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
IN WHAT WAS DESCRIBED AS A MAJOR
CONCESSION, IRAN HAS AGREED TO
SLASH THE AMOUNT OF PLUTONIUM IT
WILL PRODUCE AT ITS IRAQ HEAVY
WATER REACTOR BY 80%
THE WORK DONE THERE HAD RAISED
CONCERNS IRAN WAS DEVELOPING A
NUCLEAR WEAPON
THE NEWS WAS REPORTED THIS
WEEKEND BY THE OFFICIAL IRANIA
NEWS AGENCY.
WESTERN POWERS HAD NO COMMEN
BUT THE HEAD OF IRAN'S ATOMI
ENERGY AGENCY HAD THIS TO SAY.
>> Translator: THE ISSUE O
HEAVY WATER REACTOR HAS BEEN
VIRTUALLY RESOLVED AND WE HAVE
NO PROBLEM WITH THAT
>>> DIVERS CONTINUE TO SEARC
FOR HUNDREDS BELIEVED DEAD I
THE FERRY THAT SANK LAST
WEDNESDAY.
THE DEATH COUNT ROSE TO 58 BUT
COULD EXCEED 300 ONCE THOS
STILL MISSING ARE ACCOUNTED FOR.
TRANSCRIPTS OF CONVERSATIONS
RELEASED SHOW EVEN AS THE FERR
LISTED DANGEROUSLY, A MEMBER O
THE FERRY'S CREW ASKED AT LEAS
THREE TIMES IF PASSENGERS WOUL
BE PICKED UP IF THEY ABANDONED
SHIP AND HOW LONG IT WOULD TAKE.
THE CAPTAIN EVENTUALLY TOOK 30
MINUTES TO ISSUE AN EVACUATION
ORDER, AN ORDER SEVERA
SURVIVORS SAID THEY NEVER HEARD.
>>> IT IS EASTER SUNDAY.
IN FRONT OF A THRONG OF 150,00
PEOPLE WHO FILLED ST. PETER'
SQUARE, POPE FRANCIS URGED THE
FAITHFUL TO CARE FOR THE SICK,
THE ELDERLY AND NEEDY.
HE CALLED FOR AN END TO TERROR
ATTACKS AGAINST CHRISTIANS I
NIGERIA AND AN END TO VIOLENCE
IN UKRAINE AND SYRIA
IN SYRIA DURING A RARE PUBLI
APPEARANCE, PRESIDENT BASHAR A
ASSAD MARKED EASTER BY VISITIN
AN ANCIENT MOSTLY CHRISTIA
VILLAGE, PROMISING TO PROTEC
CHURCHES THERE WHICH H
DESCRIBED AS PART OF THE
NATION'S HERITAGE.
THERE ARE METHOD TO BE AT LEAS
1 MILLION CHRISTIANS IN SYRIA.
THE VISIT WAS SEEN AS AN EFFOR
TO PERSUADE MINORITIES ASSAD'S
GOVERNMENT IS THEIR BEST
PROTECTION AGAINST ISLAMIS
EXTREMISTS
THESE IMAGES WERE POSTED O
ASSAD'S FACEBOOK AND INSTAGRAM
PAGES.
>>> FOR THE SECOND TIME IN TWO
DAYS THERE'S BEEN AN AMERICA
DRONE ATTACK IN YEMEN AGAINS
SUSPECTED MEMBERS OF AL QAEDA.
U.S. OFFICIALS HAD NO COMMEN
BUT SECURITY OFFICIALS IN YEME
SAY ABOUT 25 SUSPECTED
TERRORISTS WERE KILLED TODAY
APPROXIMATELY TEN OTHERS WER
KILLED YESTERDAY
THIS VIDEO WHICH STARTED
APPEARING ON JIHADIST WEBSITES
RECENTLY REPORTEDLY SHOWS
GATHERING OF MORE THAN 100 A
QAEDA FIGHTERS IN YEMEN.
THE BRANCH, KNOWN AS AL QAEDA IN
THE ARABIAN PEN MINUTES LASHES
IS CONSIDERED AMONG THE MOST
DANGEROUS IN THE WORLD
>>> NEWLY RELEASED GOVERNMEN
DOCUMENTS SHOW GENERAL MOTOR
WAITED SEVEN YEARS BEFOR
RECALLING MORE THAN 300,00
SATURN IONS.
THIS DESPITE THOUSANDS O
COMPLAINTS THAT THE CAR'S POWE
STEERING SYSTEM WAS NOT WORKIN
PROPERLY
THE PROBLEM REPORTEDLY
CONTRIBUTED TO AT LEAST 12
CRASHES, NONFATE
THE CARS WERE FINALLY RECALLED
THREE WEEKS AGO.
THE GOVERNMENT ONCE AGAIN WILL
START MAILING BENEFIT STATEMENTS
TO WORKERS INFORMING THEM WHAT
TO EXPECT WHEN THEY QUALIFY FO
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS
THE PRACTICE STOPPED IN 2011
BECAUSE OF BUDGET CUTS
STARTING THIS SEPTEMBER, THOSE
IN THE WORKFORCE WILL RECEIVE
STATEMENT IN THE MAIL STARTING
AT 25 AND CONTINUING EVERY FIV
YEARS UNTIL THEY TURN 60
THE PRACTICE IS MEANT TO REACH
WORKERS WHO DON'T GO ONLINE TO
CHECK.
THE MAIL ACTION ARE EXPECTED T
COST THE GOVERNMENT $70 MILLIO
A YEAR
>>> ASTRONAUTS AT TH
INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION GO
A BIG EASTER DELIVERY THIS
MORNING.
AN UNMANNED SPACECRAFT CARRYIN
5,000 POUNDS OF EQUIPMENT DOCKED
WITH THE SPACE STATION
THE CARGO INCLUDES A SPACE SUIT,
MATERIALS USED FOR SCIENTIFI
EXPERIMENTS, FOOD AND CARE
ACKNOWLEDGES, DELIVERED BY THE
DRAGON SPACECRAFT OPERATED B
THE PRIVATE COMPANY SPACE-X.
>>> THE FORMER PRIZE FIGHTER
RUBEN "HURRICANE" CARTER HAS
DIED, HE WAS 76.
HE FIRST ACHIEVED FAME WHEN HE
FOUGHT FOR A WORLD TITLE I
TWO YEARS LATER HE WAS
WRONGFULLY IMPRISONED FO
ALLEGED INVOLVEMENT IN A TRIPL
MURDER IN PATERSON, NEW JERSEY
AFTER SERVING 19 YEARS IN 1985
A FEDERAL JUDGE ORDERED HIM FREE
SAYING CARTER'S CONVICTION WAS
PREDICATED ON AN APPEAL TO
RACISM RATHER THAN REASON.
HIS STORY WAS IMMORTALIZED B
BOB DYLAN IN THE SON
"HURRICANE" AND THE 1999 MOVIE
STARRING DENZEL WASHINGTON
>>> IF YOU EVER FELT LUCKY THA
YOU GOT A FREE SAMPLE OF A
PRESCRIPTION DRUG FROM A DOCTOR,
IT MAY ACTUALLY BE COSTING YOU
IN THE LONG RUN.
A NEW STUDY FROM STANFOR
UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICIN
FOUND THAT DOCTORS WHO ARE
ALLOWED TO HAND OUT FREE SAMPLES
OFTEN PRESCRIBE THOSE EXPENSIV
DRUGS VERSUS DOCTORS WHO DON'T
HAVE ACCESS TO FREE SAMPLES.
WE'RE JOINED FROM CALIFORNIA B
PROFESSOR LANE WHO TEACHES
PEDIATRICS AND DERMATOLOGY A
STANFORD AND IS A SENIOR AUTHO
OF THE STUDY
SO YOU LOOKED SPECIFICALLY A
THE PRACTICE OF DERMATOLOGY.
WHAT DID YOU FIND?
>> YES, WE FOUND THAT THOS
PHYSICIANS ACROSS THE UNITED
STATES WHO USE SAMPLES ARE MUC
MORE LIKELY TO WRITE FOR HIGHE
PRESCRIPTIONS.
THE AVERAGE COST OF A FIRS
VISIT FOR ACNE OR ROW SASH SHA
WAS OVER $450 FOR MEDICATION FOR
THE PHYSICIANS THAT USED
SAMPLES.
WE COMPARED IT TO OUR CLINIC
WHERE WE HAVE NO SAMPLES, WHER
THE AVERAGE COST WAS ONLY $200
SO AT LEAST TWICE MORE EXPENSIVE
WERE THE PRESCRIPTION COSTS FROM
THE PHYSICIANS WHO USED SAMPLES.
>> AND THIS WAS FOCUSED ON
DERMATOLOGISTS AND THESE
PARTICULAR TYPES OF MEDICINE
BUT HOW DOES THIS TRANSLATE OUT?
THIS IS A WIDER PRACTICE THAT'
HAPPENING IN DIFFERENT FIELDS AS
WELL
>> WELL, THE REASON FOR TH
STUDY IS I NOTICED IN MY
PRACTICE, ONCE WE DID NOT HAVE
SAMPLES, THAT I WAS WRITING FO
MORE GENERICS AND THE PATIENTS
REFERRED FROM DERMATOLOGISTS
WERE ON MORE EXPENSIVE
MEDICATIONS.
SO WE TRIED TO LOOK AT IT.
IN THE DATA, WE FOUND THAT IT IS
TRUE THAT DERMATOLOGISTS ARE
USING SAMPLES MORE THAN OTHE
SPECIALTIES OVER THE LAST TE
YEARS.
AND A LOT OF THAT HAS TO DO WITH
THE USE OF WHAT'S CALLED BRAND
GENERICS, GENERICS UNDER BRAND
NAME, VERY EXPENSIVE
>> THE DRUG COMPANIES WOULD SAY,
DON'T THESE FREE SAMPLES HEL
THE POOR WHO MIGHT NOT BE ABLE
TO AFFORD THE MEDICATIONS OR
HELP THEM GET IMMEDIATELY ON THE
DRUG
>> THAT'S WHAT DERMATOLOGIST
AND FITS WILL OFTEN SAY.
BUT THE DATA IS VERY CLEAR
THAT THE POOR PATIENTS ARE NOT
THE ONES WHO USUALLY GET THE
SAMPLES.
WE DIDN'T LOOK AT THAT IN OU
STUDY BUT THAT'S BEEN SHOWN IN
OTHER STUDIES.
>> SO IS THERE A CONNECTIO
BETWEEN THE AMOUNT OF MONEY THAT
DRUG COMPANIES NOW SPEND
IS THIS BASICALLY OUR FREE
SAMPLES THE MARKETING WRITE-OFF?
>> YES
SO IT LOOKS LIKE THERE'S A
LEAST OVER $6 BILLION A YEAR
SPENT BY PHARMACEUTICA
COMPANIES IN SAMPLING.
AND SO THAT COST EVENTUALLY HA
TO BE PAID BY SOMEONE.
AND THE PRICE OF THE GENERIC
DRUG MAY BE QUITE A BIT LESS
THAN THE PRICE OF A BRAND NAME
OR BRANDED GENERIC
AND IT'S ONLY THE BRANDE
GENERICS OR THE BRANDED DRUG
THAT ARE SAMPLED
SO THOSE ARE THE ONES THAT THE
DERMATOLOGISTS ARE CHANNELED
INTO WRITING PRESCRIPTIONS FOR
>> AND WHAT ABOUT THE ARGUMENT
THAT THIS IS -- THE SAMPLES AR
ALSO A WAY TO GET THE MOST
RECENT MEDICATIONS INTO TH
HANDS OF DOCTORS
>> SOMETIMES THAT'S NOT THE BEST
THING.
THERE ARE STUDIES WITH
CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE THA
SOMETIMES THE RECENT MEDICATIONS
ARE NOT STUDIED AS WELL AND TH
RISK OF DEATH OR DYING FROM TH
USE OF SAMPLES CAN BE THERE.
AND DERMATOLOGISTS, WE DON'T SEE
THAT, BUT THE OTHER PROBLEM IS
THAT THE RECENT MEDICATIONS HAVE
NOT BEEN PROVEN BETTER THA
GENERIC IN MOST SITUATIONS
>> SO THE $6.3 BILLION, THOS
ARE COSTS PASSED ON TO THE
CONSUMER
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
ONE OF THE FOCUSES OF OUR STUD
WAS FOR THE DERMATOLOGIST TO
REALIZE THAT ALTHOUGH THEY THINK
THEY'RE HELPING THE PATIENTS
THEY ARE REALLY BEIN
MANIPULATED TO WRITE FOR MOR
EXPENSIVE MEDICATIONS WITH N
PROVEN BENEFIT OF THOS
MEDICATIONS OVER THE GENERIC
DRUGS.
>> ALL RIGHT
PROFESSOR ALFRED LANE FROM
STANFORD, THANKS VERY MUCH
>> THANK YOU
>>> OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT.
IF YOU VISIT THE WEBSITE
TONIGHT, CHANS ARE YOU'LL FIND
COMMENTS ON OUR STORIES.
SOME KIND, OTHERS NOT SO MUCH.
IN SOME WAYS THAT'S THE NATURE
OF THE INTERNET.
PEOPLE CAN GET VERY WORKED U
ABOUT EVEN THE MOST SEEMINGL
INNOCUOUS SUBJECTS
WHAT MIGHT SURPRISE YOU IS THA
NEGATIVE COMMENTS CAN AFFECT THE
WAY YOU THINK ABOUT THE STORY IN
WAYS YOU DON'T EVEN REALIZE.
WE ASKED A FEW OF OUR PRODUCER
TO READ SOME OF THE COMMENTS W
FOUND AS WE RESEARCHED THI
STORY.
FEEL FREE TO ADD YOUR COMMENTS
>> IF YOU READ ABOUT POLITICS ON
THE INTERNET, THEN YOU'V
PROBABLY READ COMMENTS LIK
THIS
>> CAN YOU IMAGINE WHAT THE BILL
OF RIGHTS WOULD LOOK LIKE HA
LIBERALS WRITTEN IT?
>> HEY, GENIUS
LIBERALS DID WRITE THE BILL OF
RIGHTS AND YOU KNUCKLE-DRAGGER
SHOULD BE THANKFUL THEY DID.
>> WHY IS IT THAT DUKE GETS AL
THE BEST WHITE BASKETBAL
PLAYERS?
>> WHY DO YOU POST SOMETHING S
STUPID AND POINTLESS
>> MOVIES, STUPID.
THE ACTRESS IS UGLY AND BORING
>> YOU ARE OBVIOUSLY DEAF IF YOU
REALLY THINK TAYLOR SWIFT, WHO
CANNOT HOLD A NOTE, CAN SING
BETTER THAN CARRIE UNDERWOOD
>> PEER REVIEW SHOULD NOT MEAN
STATISTICAL MORONS
>> IT'S COMMENTS LIKE THESE THAT
HAVE TURNED THE INTERNET INTO
VERITABLE WILD WEST OF RUDENESS.
WITH ABRACIVE AND OFTE
COMPLETELY ANONYMOUS COMMENTER
HIJACKING ONLINE CONVERSATIONS
EVEN A COOKING BLOG LIKE DEB'S
SMITTEN KITCHEN IS NOT IMMUNE.
SHE HAS 5 MILLION TO 6 MILLION
VISIT AREAS MONTH.
NOT ALL OF THEM POLITE
>> THANKS TO FOLLOWING THIS
TOTALLY WRECKED MY EGGS.
NEEDLESS TO SAY I WON'T BE BACK.
THE BIGGER THE SITE HAS GOTTEN
THE MORE OFFHAND O
INAPPROPRIATE COMMENTS HAVE COME
THROUGH.
>> Reporter: COMMENTS HAVE
BECOME A STAPLE OF THE INTERNET.
THEY'RE USED ALMOST EVERYWHERE
FROM NEWSPAPER ARTICLES TO
ONLINE RETAILERS
IN PART BECAUSE THEY HELP KEEP
PEOPLE ON THOSE SITES LONGER
AND INCREASED AD REVENUE AND
PRODUCT SALES.
BUT BEING ABLE TO SAY WHATEVER
YOU WANT HAS LEFT WEB PUBLISHERS
AND BLOGGERS WONDERING WHAT TO
DO ABOUT OFFENSIVE COMMENTS ON
THEIR SITE
FOR DEB PERLMAN'S BLOG THERE'S A
SIMPLE SOLUTION.
WHAT DO YOU DO WHEN YOU GET
HORRIBLE COMMENT
>> DELETE IT, DON'T THINK TWICE.
>> Reporter: FOR SOME SITES LIKE
REDDIT IT'S MORE COMPLICATED
ONE OF THE BIGGEST SITES ON TH
INTERNET, REDDIT IS A SPRAWLIN
NETWORK OF ONLINE COMMUNITIE
THAT'S COMMENT-FUELED.
USERS POST ARTICLES, PHOTOS,
LINKS THEY FIND ONLINE, THEN
CREATE GIANT DISCUSSIONS AROUN
THEM
ERIC MARTIN IS GENERAL MANAGER
>> I THINK WE HAD 120 MILLIO
UNIQUE VISITORS, AND WE DO ABOUT
1 MILLION COMMENTS PER DAY
>> SO COMMENTS ARE FAIRL
INTEGRAL TO REDDIT'S
INFRASTRUCTURE
HOW DOES REDDIT MANAGE 1 MILLION
COMMENTS A DAY
>> WE DON'T.
WE CAN'T
WE COULDN'T POSSIBLY MANAGE
MILLION COMMENTS PER DAY
WE STEP IN AS LITTLE A
POSSIBLE
>> Reporter: IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT
BEING RUDE
COMMENTS CAN AFFECT HOW YO
THINK ABOUT WHAT YOU'RE READING.
LAST YEAR, RESEARCHERS RELEASE
FINDINGS FROM A STUDY ON WHA
THEY CALLED THE NASTY EFFECT
TWO GROUPS OF PEOPLE WERE SHOW
A WEB ARTICLE ABOU
NANOTECHNOLOGY
BASICALLY, TINY MACHINES
IT'S NOT SOMETHING YOU'D EXPEC
PEOPLE TO FEEL STRONGLY ABOUT.
AT THE END OF ONE VERSION OF THE
ARTICLE, THE RESEARCHERS MADE UP
CIVIL, POLITE COMMENTS
AND AT THE END OF THE OTHER,
ANGRY AND INSULTING COMMENTS
THE RESEARCHERS FOUND THAT THE
GROUP THAT HAD READ THE VERSIO
WITH NEGATIVE COMMENTS CAME AWAY
WITH VERY STRONG, POLARIZE
FEELINGS ABOUT NANOTECHNOLOG
AFTER READING IT
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER OR NOT
THEY KNEW MUCH ABOUT IT IN THE
FIRST PLACE.
SO WHAT ARE THE SOLUTIONS?
SOME SITES LIKE POPULAR SCIENC
ARE REMOVING COMMENT
ALTOGETHER
OTHERS, LIKE ESPN.COM, ARE ONL
ALLOWING PEOPLE TO COMMENT WIT
THEIR REAL NAMES
THROUGH SITES LIKE FACEBOOK.
THE IDEA IS THAT PEOPLE ARE LESS
LIKELY TO BE RUDE IF THEIR REA
NAME AND PHOTO ARE ATTACHED TO
WHAT THEY SAY.
BUT ERIC MARTIN OF REDDIT SAYS
ANONYMITY HAS VALUE.
>> WHAT ARE SOME EXAMPLES OF
ANONYMITY HELPING A DISCUSSION
>> A 15-YEAR-OLD KID IN A FAMILY
THAT IS NOT VERY OPEN-MINDED
ABOUT YOUR SEXUALITY, OR SOMEONE
WHO'S TRYING TO FIGURE OUT A
DIFFICULT HEALTH SITUATION
IF YOU'RE THINKING ABOUT
SWITCHING CAREERS.
IT'S VERY DANGEROUS SOMETIME
FOR YOU TO COMMENT WITH YOUR
REAL NAME.
>> Reporter: THE SOLUTION MA
LIE SOMEWHERE IN BETWEEN TOTAL
ANONYMITY AND REAL IDENTITY.
WITH COMMENTERS WHO CONSISTENTLY
USE A NICKNAME OR PSEUDONYM.
ROE IS THE VICE PRESIDENT OF
BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AT DISCUSS,
A COMMENTING SERVICE USED BY
MORE THAN 3 MILLION WEBSITES
INCLUDING "THE NEWSHOUR'S"
DISCUSS COMPARED THREE GRIPES.
ANONYMOUS COMMENTERS, COMMENTERS
WITH CONSISTENT NICKNAMES, AND
COMMENT HOARSE USED THEIR REAL
NAMES.
THEN MEASURED HOW OFTEN THOS
GROUPS POSTED COMMENTS AND HOW
WELL OTHER COMMENTERS REACTED TO
THEM
>> THE CONVENTIONAL WISDOM WAS
REAL NAMES IS GOING TO PROBABL
WIN IN TERMS OF QUALITY.
AND THAT ANONYMOUS WOULD
PROBABLY WIN IN TERMS OF
QUANTITY
TURNS OUT ACTUALLY THAT MIDDLE
GROUP OF PSEUDONYM COMMENTER
SCORED HIGHER THAN BOTH.
>> WHAT IS IT ABOUT ANONYMOU
COMMENTING
>> ONE OF THE REASONS COMPLETELY
ANONYMOUS COMMENTING CAN BE AN
ISSUE IS THAT IT'S JUST NOT TIED
TO A SENSE OF COMMUNITY NORMS OR
STANDARDS IN ANY WAY
>> SO THAT SEEMS TO BE THE GRAND
BARGAIN THAT FACEBOOK CAME WIT
IS IT'S VERIFIED, I KNOW WHO YOU
ARE, I KNOW WHO YOUR FRIENDS
ARE, AND YOU'RE GOING TO BE MORE
CIVIL IF THIS IS CONNECTED T
YOUR REPUTATION.
>> I THINK THERE'S A PLACE FOR
THAT
WE'RE NOT SAYING IT'S A BA
THING TO BE ABLE TO USE REAL
NAMES OR IDENTITIES.
IT'S JUST THAT GIVING USERS THAT
CHOICE TURNS OUT TO BE VER
IMPORTANT FOR GETTING TH
HIGHEST-QUALITY DISCUSSIONS.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION T
IDENTITY CHOICE, DISCUSS OFFER
TOOLS TO SCREEN AND FLAG
OFFENSIVE WORDS AND ALLOWS USERS
TO VOTE COMMENTS UP OR DOWN.
BUT IT LEAVES IT UP TO
INDIVIDUAL WEBSITE MANAGERS TO
USE THAT INFORMATION I
MODERATING DISCUSSIONS
AND IT'S THAT ELEMENT OF HUMAN
ENGAGEMENT THAT EXPERTS LIKE
ERIC MARTIN SAY SOFTWARE CAN
NEVER REPLACE.
>> NO ONE SAYS YOU HAVE TO HAV
COMMENTS
I THINK IF YOU ARE GOING TO HAVE
COMMENTS, YOU SHOULD CARE ABOU
THEM
YOU SHOULD BE ACTIVE IN THEM
AND YOU SHOULD INVEST TIME AND
RESOURCES AND PEOPLE IN MAKING
THEM THE COMMUNITIES YOU WANT.
>> ALTHOUGH REDDIT TRIES T
AVOID OVERSEEING THE COMMENTS ON
ITS SIDE, IT'S POSTED GUIDELINES
ON COMMENTING ETIQUETTE AN
ALLOWS USERS TO MODERATE THE
DISCUSSIONS THEY'RE INVOLVED IN.
AN ACTIVITY WHICH HAS BECOME A
DAILY ROUTINE FOR DEB PERLMAN.
EVERY DAY SHE READS EVERY NE
COMMENT THAT'S COME IN FRO
READERS OF SMITTEN KITCHEN
IN SOME CASES RESPONDS TO THEM
>> I TRY TO READ EVERYTHIN
THAT'S COME IN AND THAT WON'
JUST BE ON THE NEW ARTICLES,
THAT WILL BE ON ANYTHING THA
ANYBODY'S COMMENTED ON, ON ANY
ONE OF THE 850 RECIPE IN THE
ARCHIVES
>> SO I COULD COMMENT ON
SOMETHING YOU WROTE ABOUT FOUR
YEARS AGO?
>> AND IT WILL PROBABLY STAR
WITH, YOU PROBABLY AREN'T GOIN
TO READ THIS
BUT I DO
I THINK THEY THINK THEY'RE
SPEAKING TO A CORPORATE WALL
THEN WHEN A HUMAN BEING IS LIKE,
HEY, I'M SO SORRY, LET'S WAL
THROUGH THIS, ALL OF A SUDDEN IT
TOTALLY SOFTENS TH
CONVERSATION
>> IF YOU WANT TO WEIGH IN ABOUT
ONLINE COMMENTS, PLEASE LEAV
YOUR COMMENTS.
AT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG.
>>> ON EASTER WE LOOK AT A
UNPRECEDENTED EVENT HAPPENING AT
THE VATICAN NEXT WEEKEND,
DOUBLE CANONIZATION, WHEN TW
FORMER POPES WILL BE MAD
SAINTS
HERE TO TELL US MORE IS RACHEL
FROM THE ASSOCIATED PRESS.
WE DON'T SEE CANONIZATIONS VER
OFTEN BUT TWO AT A TIME?
>> THIS IS A FIRST
POPE FRANCIS OBVIOUSLY APPROVE
AND WANTED TO PUT INTO EFFEC
AND DID IT AS PART OF HI
BREAKING WITH VATICAN PROTOCOL
AND TRADITION AS HE'S DONE
THROUGHOUT HIS FIRST YEAR IN THE
PAPACY
>> WHO ARE THE TWO POPES
THEY SEEM TO REPRESENT VER
DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE CHURCH.
>> THERE'S POPE JOHN XXIII WHO
WAS IN OFFICE FROM 1958 TO 1963.
AND HE'S KNOWN FOR MODERNIZING
REFORMS THAT REALLY BROUGHT TH
CHURCH INTO THE NEW CENTURY AN
OUT INTO THE WORLD MORE.
AND HE'S KIND OF A HERO FOR TH
MORE LIBERAL WING OF THE
CATHOLIC CHURCH.
THE OTHER IS POPE JOHN PAUL II
WHO SERVED FROM 1978 TO 2005
WHEN HE DIED
AND HE IS SEEN AS THE KIND O
HERO FOR MOR
CONSERVATIVE-LEANING CATHOLICS
PARTLY BECAUSE HE THOUGHT TH
CHANGES JOHN XXIII PUT INT
EFFECT HAD GONE TOO FAR.
IT WAS KIND OF A COURS
CORRECTION FOR JOHN PAUL II TO
COME IN.
>> WERE THERE POLITICA
CONSIDERATIONS HERE?
IT SEEMS POPE FRANCIS IS
PLEASING BOTH SIDES BY DOING
THIS
>> THAT'S HOW PEOPLE ARE READING
IT, LIKE BALANCING THE TICKET.
THERE'S A LEFT/RIGHT DIVIDE IN
THE CHURCH AND IT IS VERY WIDE
BY BRINGING THESE TWO ME
TOGETHER FOR A CANONIZATION AT
THE SAME TIME, HE'S SAYING A LOT
OF DIFFERENT THINGS.
HE'S SAYING THAT ONE ISN'T -
THEY'RE NOT AT ODDS WITH EAC
OTHER.
THAT THEY'RE MORE ON A CONTINUUM
OF HOW THEY LED THE CHURCH
AND OUGHT THAT THERE'S ROOM FO
EVERYBODY.
THIS IS A BIG MESSAGE OF HIS
PONTIFICATE, THAT HE WANTS ALL
PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT VIEWS TO B
WELCOME IN THE CHURCH.
>> SO BACKING UP JUST A SECOND
WHAT DOES IT TAKE TO BECOME
SAINT?
>> THERE'S A PROCESS THAT TH
CHURCH GOES THROUGH THAT'S
INCREDIBLY LENGTHY AND VER
INTENSIVE.
IT'S FIRST, SOMEONE LOOK
THROUGH YOUR ENTIRE LIFE
YOUR WRITINGS.
DECIDES WHETHER OR NOT YOU HAD
EXHIBITED HEROIC VIRTUE.
THAT'S THE PHRASE THEY USE
THE POPE APPROVES THAT
THE NEXT STEP IS BEATIFICATION
THAT'S WHEN A MIRACLE IS
ATTRIBUTED TO YOUR INTERSESSION.
FY PRAYED TO POPE JOHN PAUL II
AND WAS CURED OF SOMETHING
THAT'S A MIRACLE THE CHURC
WOULD HAVE TO CERTIFY, THEN YO
BECOME BEATIFIED
THE CANONIZATION, USUALLY IT'S
TWO MIRACLES THAT HAVE TO BE
PROVED, BUT IN THIS CASE POP
JOHN PAUL II HAD TWO MIRACLE
ATTRIBUTED TO HIM AND CERTIFIED.
JOHN XXIII ONLY HAD ONE.
POPE FRANCIS DECIDED TO WAIV
THE SECOND MIRACLE REQUIREMENT
AND IT'S NOT AS UNUSUAL AS YOU'D
THINK.
IT DOESN'T HAPPEN A LOT BU
THERE IS A LOT OF DEBATE WITHI
THE CATHOLIC CHURCH, AMONGST
THEOLOGIANS, WHETHER OR NOT TW
MIRACLES ARE REQUIRED.
>> THERE'S A WEIGHT PERIOD
ISN'T THERE?
ALMOST LIKE THE NBA OR BASEBAL
HALL OF FAME, THERE HAS TO BE
CERTAIN NUMBER OF YEARS THAT
PASS
POPE JOHN PAUL II, DID THA
>> RIGHT AFTER HE DIED THERE WAS
THIS INCREDIBLE OUTPOURING O
SUPPORT FOR HIM.
THE CROWDS IN ST. PETER'S SQUARE
CHANTING "SANTO SUBATO," WHICH
MEANS MAKE HIM A SAINT
IMMEDIATELY.
WHEN POPE BENEDICT WAS ELECTED
HE DECIDED TO WAIVE TH
FIVE-YEAR WAITING PERIOD THA
USUALLY IS REQUIRED AFTER
DEATH BEFORE YOU EVEN STAR
LOOKING AT WHETHER OR NO
SOMEONE SHOULD BE ON TRACK T
BECOME A SAINT
>> SO ONE POPE GOT AN EXCEPTIO
FOR THE TWO MIRACLES DOWN TO
ONE, ONE POPE GOT BE A
INTERCEPTION FOR THE WAITING
TIME
WE'RE HEARING WORLD LEADERS,
PRESIDENTS, BUT THIS IS SOMEWHAT
DIFFERENT THAN STANDARD, IT'
NOT A HUGE THREE-DAY AFFAIR LIKE
IT BECOMES
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
THIS IS THE NO FRILLS PAPACY
HE'S MAKING ATE NO FRILLS DA
ONIZATION.
SO IT'S JUST GOING TO BE THE
BASIC CEREMONY ITSELF IN ST.
PETER'S SQUARE
IT'S STILL ENORMOUSLY FESTIV
AND SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE AROUND
THE WORLD COULD BE WATCHING BU
IT WON'T BE THE THREE-DA
EXTRAVAGANZA
>> RACHEL, ASSOCIATED PRESS,
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU
>> THIS IS "PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND
SUNDAY."
>>> WITH WILLIAM, KATE AND
PRINCE GEORGE MAKING HEADLINES
AROUND THE WORLD AS THEY TRAVEL,
THE BRITISH MONARCHY I
CURRENTLY RIDING A WAVE OF
POPULARITY
BUT IN SPAIN, THE MONARCHY THERE
IS FINDING PUBLIC SUPPORT IN
SHORTER SUPPLY
ITV'S MATT FREY REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE GOLD PAINT ON
THE PALACE GATES MAY LOOK
LITTLE CHIPPED THESE DAYS.
THE SHUTTERS WEATHER-WORN.
THE ROYALTY LOOKING OUT FROM
THESE WINDOWS MAY BE GRATIFIED
BY THE REASSURING SIGHT OF A
THRONG OF SCHOOLCHILDREN ON TH
DUTIFUL TRIP ROUND THE PALACE.
>> WHO WANTS SPAIN TO BE A
REPUBLIC
THAT'S PRACTICALLY EVERYONE.
>> THEY DO NOT
>> THEY DO NOTHING
>> THEY DO SOME THINGS
>> NOTHING
IT IS ABOUT IMAGE FOR SPAIN.
>> Reporter: THERE WAS PLENTY TO
EMBOLDEN AN UNDERAGE REPUBLICA
IN SPAIN
FOR INSTANCE, THE REASON WHY
KING JUAN CARLOS IS WALKING WITH
STICKS IS THAT HE FELL WHILE
HUNTING ELEPHANTS ON SAFARI IN
BOTSWANA IN THE COMPANY OF HIS
MISTRESS
AND THEN HAD TO GET A HI
REPLACEMENT OPERATION.
IT WASN'T THE CHOICE OF PREY O
THE INFIDELITY THAT UPSET TH
PUBLIC, IT WAS THE TIMING.
THE MONARCH WAS ON SAFARI WHIL
THE NATION WAS ON ITS KNEE
ECONOMICALLY
THE SPANISH PUBLIC IS COLD-EYE
ABOUT THE USEFULNESS OF IT
ROYALTY.
60% WANT THE KING TO ABDICATE,
WEIGHED DOWN BY SCANDAL AND OL
AGE.
THIS TWO YEARS AGO WAS WIDEL
SEEN AS TRUTH THAT JUAN CARLOS
SHOULD EMBRACE RETIREMENT.
THE FRESH BLOOD IS HELD IN
HIGHER ESTEEM.
PRINCE PHILIP, THE HEIR, ENJOY
A 70% APPROVAL RATING.
HIS WEDDING TO A SPANISH
TELEVISION JOURNALIST SUBJECTE
ALL THE GLAMOR OF A BRITIS
ROYAL WEDDING.
THERE IS ONE KEY DIFFERENCE,
THOUGH
THE SPANISH ROYALS ARE CHEAP
7 MILLION POUNDS A YEAR OF
TAXPAYER MONEY, A FIFTH OF WHA
A BRITISH ROYAL COSTS.
>>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ON-LINE
TOMORROW ON "THE NEWSHOUR.
JUDY WOODRUFF TALKS WITH JOH
PAUL STEVENS WHO LAMENTED TH
DIRECTION OF THE MODERN COUR
AND WANTS TO CHANGE TH
CONSTITUTION
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
"PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.